%Rough Draft of Alpaca Paper

Alpacas are commonly found throughout the America, Australia, and England. They are farmed mostly 
for their high quality fibers that, while once used mainly for personal knitting, are becoming 
increasingly popular in the fashion industry. This cousin of the llama has a deep history
rooted in the mountains of South America and are only in existence today thanks to the hard work 
of the indiginous people in that area of the world. Alpaca history and contribution to textiles
make them one of the most interesting farm animals.  

Alpacas were domesticated over 6000 years ago in South America. Andean mythology 
believed them to be a gift from the Earth Mother, Pachmana. We owe the great variety 
of Alpacas present today to the sheperding and breeding work of South American 
cultures like the Incas. Alpacas were prized in South American culture for their usefullness
in textiles, food, and labor. When the Spanish invaded and conquered South America in the 16th
century they saw a culture built on textiles provided by the cultivation of the local alpaca herds.
In an effort to subdue the indiginous population the Spanish slaughtered 90% of the alpacas. 
The species survived only through the hard work of the South American peoples who fled to the hills. Their
fantatsic fibers were rediscovered in the 19th century and played a role in the textile area of industrial
revolution. Today alpacas are bred throughout South America, Australia, England, and the United States and provide 
high grade textiles.

There are two main coat types of Alpacas: 95% are huacaya (fluffy and crimped fibers) and the remaining 
5% are suri (long and straight fibers). Both varities come in a large array of colors and are considered 
luxury fibers. The fashion industry's interest in the fiber has been growing which has increased the 
number of alpacas farmed in Europe. To help meet the general growing demand for alpaca wool, many 
breeding programs are running to selectively breed alpacas with the most desirable traits. Unlike many 
other farmed animals, alpacas are not difficult to work with and anyone could start their own herd with only
a bit of education. These traits helped skyrocket Alpaca farming to a mainstream business venture that benefits
multiple areas of society.

Alpacas are an interesting animal with an even more intresting history. They survived through great pursectution
and were the cornerstone of many civilizations throughout history. Diversity in their coat fibers for textiles 
keep them enthroned as an important animal to breed and farm. Demand for the alpaca has been strong for 6000 years 
starting with the Incas and is still growing in the 21st century.
